FEDERAL ELECTION 2019
Guide to the federal election
Voter’s checklist
Make sure you’re registered at your current address
Watch for your voter information card in the mail
Make a plan to vote
Find out who the candidates are in your riding
Bring ID when you go to vote
At your assigned polling station on election day
At your assigned polling station on advance polling days
At any Elections Canada office across Canada(deadlines apply)
By mail: visit elections.ca to find out more (deadlines apply)
This brochure is available in multiple languages at elections.ca.
For other formats, such as braille, large print and DAISY, call us.
There is a federal election this year
Make sure you’re registered to get a voter information card
If you’re registered, you will get a voter information card in the mail after the election is called.
It tells you where and when you can vote.
Bring this card with you, along with accepted ID, when you go to vote to make the voting process easier.
If you don’t get a card, or if the information on it is wrong, you may not be registered or your voter information may not be up to date.
Visit elections.ca or call us at 1-800-463-6868 to check and update your registration.
You can also register when you go to vote.
To register and vote in the federal election, you must:
be a Canadian citizen
be at least 18 years old on election day
prove your identity and address
Ways to vote
You can vote almost any time during the election period.
Choose the voting option that works best for you.
On election day
Your assigned polling station will be open for 12 hours (hours vary by province).
On advance polling days
Your assigned polling station will be open from 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on the Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday the week before election day.
At any Elections Canada office across Canada
Go to any Elections Canada office before the Tuesday before election day at 6:00 p.m.
You will vote using the special ballot process.
After the election is called, visit elections.ca or call us to find the office nearest you.
By mail
Visit elections.ca or call us to find out more.
Deadlines apply.
Check your voter information card for your voting days, locations and times.
ID to vote
You have three options to prove your identity and address.
Option 1
Show one of these pieces of ID
your driver’s licence
any other card issued by a Canadian government (federal, provincial/territorial or local) with your photo, name and current address
or
Option 2
Show two pieces of ID
Both must have your name and at least one must have your current address.
Examples:
voter information card and bank statement
utility bill and student ID card
Don’t have these?
No problem!
There are other pieces of accepted ID.
Check out the full list at elections.ca.
or
Option 3
If you don’t have ID
You can still vote if you declare your identity and address in writing and have someone who knows you and who is assigned to your polling station vouch for you.
The voucher must be able to prove their identity and address.
A person can vouch for only one person (except in long-term care institutions).
Accessibility
All electors are assigned to polling stations for election day and advance polling days.
After the election is called, make sure your assigned polling stations meet your accessibility needs by:
checking your voter information card;
entering your postal code into the Voter Information Service box at elections.ca; or
calling us at 1-800-463-6868 or 1-800-361-8935 (TTY).
If you have concerns about the accessibility of your assigned polling stations, call us.
To request voting assistance in advance, including language and sign language interpretation, call the Elections Canada office in your riding before the Tuesday before election day, 6:00 p.m.
Voting assistance tools and services on election day:
Bigger ballot with candidate names in large print
Large-print and braille lists of candidates
Tactile and braille voting template
Magnifiers (4x)
Large-grip pencil
Assistance marking your ballot